README.md, before:

# Stream Chat Docusaurus CLI

This is a CLI tool to help locally run docusaurus and show SDK documentation

## Local SDK setup

You should have a documentation directory structure starting from a `docusaurus` directory in your SDK. Within that there should be a `docs` directory. Within that should be a directory named for your SDK (ex: `iOS` or `Android` or `ReactNative`). All of your markdown documentation should live within that directory and you can feel free to use any additional directory structure you see fit for sectioning your docs. Note: each directory you have will become it's own url path. For instance, if you have this `docusaurus/docs/Android/classes/some-doc.md` file path then the url path for that markdown file will be `{url}/chat/docs/sdk/android/classes/some-doc`. Below is an example of this directory structure. Locally you should only need your individual SDK directory and contents.

![Example Directory Structure](./assets/images/Example_Directory_Structure.png)

The markdown file which you want to be the starting page (ex: `{url}/chat/docs/sdk/android` or `{url}/chat/docs/sdk/ios`) for your SDK docs should have this at the top of the file and be in the root of your doc SDK directory (ex: `docusaurus/docs/Android/example.md` or `docusaurus/docs/iOS/example.md`):

```
---
slug: /
---
```

### Assets

You can add local assets to your docs by adding them within an `assets` folder within your SDK named directory (ex: `docusaurus/docs/Android/assets/some-asset.png`) and then utilize them through local paths within your markdown files. For more info, reference the docusaurus documentation [here](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/assets).

## Plugins

You can add your own plugins in addition to the default set by creating a `docusaurus{SDK_NAME}.plugin.js` file within your `docusaurus` directory.

The custom plugin file (example name: `docusaurusReact.plugin.js`) should be in a format like this where you can add multiple plugins. `cwd` is the root path to your SDK (outside of the `docusaurus` directory described in [Local SDK setup](#Local-SDK-setup))
```js
const cwd = process.env.STREAM_SDK_PATH;
module.exports = () => {
  return {
    plugins: [
      [
        path.join(cwd, "docusaurus/node_modules/docusaurus-plugin-typedoc"),

        {
          entryPoints: [path.join(cwd, "docusaurus/src/index.ts")],
          tsconfig: path.join(cwd, "docusaurus/tsconfig.json"),
          docsRoot: path.join(cwd, "docusaurus/docs"),
          out: "docusaurus/api",
          sidebar: {
            sidebarFile: path.join(cwd, "docusaurus/typedoc-sidebar.js"),
            fullNames: false,
          },
        },
      ],
    ],
  };
};
```

## Sidebars

You can add your own sidebar instead of the auto-generated default by creating a `sidebars-{SDK_NAME}.(js|json)` file within your `docusaurus` directory. For example on `React` the file would be `sidebars-react.(js|json)` and for `React Native` you would do `sidebars-react-native.(js|json)`.

## Installation and Using the CLI
 
`yarn global add stream-chat-docusaurus-cli` or `npm install -g stream-chat-docusaurus-cli`

Within the same directory level of your SDK that the `docusaurus` directory described above lives you can run CLI commands. Make sure you have at least the directory structure described above as well as at least 1 markdown file.

*Haven't published yet so this won't install from npm/yarn so instead you can clone this locally and navigate to this folder and just do `npm install -g`*

### Initializing

To initialize the docusaurus setup (which you will need to always do before anything else), you can utilize `npx` and run this command `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -i`. If there are any custom packages you need to install for custom plugin setups you can utilize the `-c` option and add a comma separated list of packages that will be installed on initialization (ex: `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -i -c=docusaurus-plugin-typedoc,typedoc,typedoc-plugin-markdown,typescript`).

### Starting

To locally run the docusaurus setup and see your documentation you can run `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -s`. This command can be chained with the `-i` initialization command in 1 step by running `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -i -s`.

### Environment variables

In order to run the searching functionality, you need to add the Algolia env vars in your `/docusaurus/.env` file. Please remember to add it to `.gitignore` and you can have a list of required variables in our `docusaurus/src/environment.js` file.

### Versioning

To cut a new version of your docs simply type in `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -nv NEW_VERSION SDK_NAME` like this (SDK_NAME all lowercase with no spaces): `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -nv 2.0.0-rc.0 reactnative`.

### Building

To locally build your docusaurus static files to see if it succeeds you should run `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -b`. The `-b` flag builds the static files.

### MDX

Imports for mdx files need to be after the `---` section. For example:

```
---
slug: /
title: Getting Started
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```
 
## Theme markdown features

Aside from [Docusaurus' components](https://docusaurus.io/docs/next/markdown-features/), you can use our customized components too.

### Labels in headers

Labels can be used inside headers to emphasize things in our markdown documents. This will add styles in the Header and ToC.

```md
### <div class="label required">required</div> <span>Consequat deserunt</span>
```

![Example label in markdown header](./assets/images/Example_label_header.png)

And you will also see the following style in the ToC

![Example label in ToC](./assets/images/Example_label_toc.png)

### Types

As [admonitions/notes](https://docusaurus.io/docs/next/markdown-features/admonitions), we defined 5 label types:
  - required
  - note
  - info
  - caution
  - success

![Example of label types](./assets/images/Label_types.png)

Commit message:

Improve README stream theme components

README.md, after:

# Stream Chat Docusaurus CLI

This is a CLI tool to help locally run docusaurus and show SDK documentation

## Local SDK setup

You should have a documentation directory structure starting from a `docusaurus` directory in your SDK. Within that there should be a `docs` directory. Within that should be a directory named for your SDK (ex: `iOS` or `Android` or `ReactNative`). All of your markdown documentation should live within that directory and you can feel free to use any additional directory structure you see fit for sectioning your docs. Note: each directory you have will become it's own url path. For instance, if you have this `docusaurus/docs/Android/classes/some-doc.md` file path then the url path for that markdown file will be `{url}/chat/docs/sdk/android/classes/some-doc`. Below is an example of this directory structure. Locally you should only need your individual SDK directory and contents.

![Example Directory Structure](./assets/images/Example_Directory_Structure.png)

The markdown file which you want to be the starting page (ex: `{url}/chat/docs/sdk/android` or `{url}/chat/docs/sdk/ios`) for your SDK docs should have this at the top of the file and be in the root of your doc SDK directory (ex: `docusaurus/docs/Android/example.md` or `docusaurus/docs/iOS/example.md`):

```
---
slug: /
---
```

### Assets

You can add local assets to your docs by adding them within an `assets` folder within your SDK named directory (ex: `docusaurus/docs/Android/assets/some-asset.png`) and then utilize them through local paths within your markdown files. For more info, reference the docusaurus documentation [here](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/assets).

## Plugins

You can add your own plugins in addition to the default set by creating a `docusaurus{SDK_NAME}.plugin.js` file within your `docusaurus` directory.

The custom plugin file (example name: `docusaurusReact.plugin.js`) should be in a format like this where you can add multiple plugins. `cwd` is the root path to your SDK (outside of the `docusaurus` directory described in [Local SDK setup](#Local-SDK-setup))
```js
const cwd = process.env.STREAM_SDK_PATH;
module.exports = () => {
  return {
    plugins: [
      [
        path.join(cwd, "docusaurus/node_modules/docusaurus-plugin-typedoc"),

        {
          entryPoints: [path.join(cwd, "docusaurus/src/index.ts")],
          tsconfig: path.join(cwd, "docusaurus/tsconfig.json"),
          docsRoot: path.join(cwd, "docusaurus/docs"),
          out: "docusaurus/api",
          sidebar: {
            sidebarFile: path.join(cwd, "docusaurus/typedoc-sidebar.js"),
            fullNames: false,
          },
        },
      ],
    ],
  };
};
```

## Sidebars

You can add your own sidebar instead of the auto-generated default by creating a `sidebars-{SDK_NAME}.(js|json)` file within your `docusaurus` directory. For example on `React` the file would be `sidebars-react.(js|json)` and for `React Native` you would do `sidebars-react-native.(js|json)`.

## Installation and Using the CLI
 
`yarn global add stream-chat-docusaurus-cli` or `npm install -g stream-chat-docusaurus-cli`

Within the same directory level of your SDK that the `docusaurus` directory described above lives you can run CLI commands. Make sure you have at least the directory structure described above as well as at least 1 markdown file.

*Haven't published yet so this won't install from npm/yarn so instead you can clone this locally and navigate to this folder and just do `npm install -g`*

### Initializing

To initialize the docusaurus setup (which you will need to always do before anything else), you can utilize `npx` and run this command `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -i`. If there are any custom packages you need to install for custom plugin setups you can utilize the `-c` option and add a comma separated list of packages that will be installed on initialization (ex: `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -i -c=docusaurus-plugin-typedoc,typedoc,typedoc-plugin-markdown,typescript`).

### Starting

To locally run the docusaurus setup and see your documentation you can run `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -s`. This command can be chained with the `-i` initialization command in 1 step by running `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -i -s`.

### Environment variables

In order to run the searching functionality, you need to add the Algolia env vars in your `/docusaurus/.env` file. Please remember to add it to `.gitignore` and you can have a list of required variables in our `docusaurus/src/environment.js` file.

### Versioning

To cut a new version of your docs simply type in `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -nv NEW_VERSION SDK_NAME` like this (SDK_NAME all lowercase with no spaces): `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -nv 2.0.0-rc.0 reactnative`.

### Building

To locally build your docusaurus static files to see if it succeeds you should run `npx stream-chat-docusaurus -b`. The `-b` flag builds the static files.

### MDX

Imports for mdx files need to be after the `---` section. For example:

```
---
slug: /
title: Getting Started
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```
 
## Markdown Features Stream theme

Aside from [Docusaurus' components](https://docusaurus.io/docs/next/markdown-features/), you can use our customized components.

### Labels in headers

Labels can be used inside headers to give them emphasis. This will add styles in the Header and ToC.

```md
### <div class="label required">required</div> **Consequat deserunt**
```

> NOTE: It is mandatory to put the `label` __before__ your Heading title. See [this](docusaurus/src/css/components/label.scss#L8) for design implementation.

![Example label in markdown header](./assets/images/Example_label_header.png)

And you will also see the following style in the ToC

![Example label in ToC](./assets/images/Example_label_toc.png)

### Types

Similar to [admonitions/notes](https://docusaurus.io/docs/next/markdown-features/admonitions), we defined 5 label types:
  - required
  - note
  - info
  - caution
  - success

![Example of label types](./assets/images/Label_types.png)
